# Towards Psychometric Learning Analytics: Augmenting the Urnings Algorithm with Response Times
## Code repository

### Description 

This is the codebase for the paper: Towards Psychometric Learning Analytics: Augmenting the Urnings Algorithm with Response Times. In this file, we describe the structure of the codebase and how it is connected to the paper. 
All resulting simulated data and the data file we used in the empirical example can be found at OSF under the link: 

### Urnings algorithms

The versions of the Urnings algorithm we developed were implemented as C routines. These routines can be found in the _CRT_old.c_ file. To use these routines in R we created wrapper functions around these algorithms in 
_crt_wrapper.R_ The script _crt_wrapper.R_ also contains functions we used in the empirical example. Some utility functions used throughout the simulations are defined at _util.R_.

### Baselines of converged systems

The baseline MSE calculations for system and individual level MSE can be found at _baselines.R_ and the system level baseline MSE for the simulation with changing abilities can be found in _baselines_change.R_. 

### Simulation studies
The scripts for the three simulations presented in the paper are located in the _/analysis_ folder. The settings for the simulations with constant abilities are in _fixed_factors.R_ and the settings for changing abilities are in _fixed_factors_change.R_
Simulations with a name starting with "sim1" are for the total cold start, "sim2" for the calibrated system and "sim3" for the changing abilities. Each simulation has three separate scripts for the three algorithm variants.
Simulations with a name ending with "acc" use the original Urnings algorithm, "mu" uses the Multiple Urns and "ms" uses the Multiple Updates. The output generated by these simulations is saved to an _/output_ folder. The resulting descriptive
statistics and plots were calculated/created using scripts under the _/results_ folder, where _res1_coldstart.R_, _res2_newstudents.R_ and _res3_change.R_ are the results of the first simulation, second and third simulation respectively.

### Empirical example
The folder _/empirical_example_ contains the scripts used to analyse the empirical data. The script _data_wrangling.R_ prepares the raw data _answers.csv_ for the analysis, and the script _descriptive_data.R_ is used to calculate descriptive
statistics presented in the Empirical example section of the paper. The settings for the repeated analysis of the data are defined in _analysis_settings.R_. 
The scripts _emp_data_acc.R_, _emp_data_mu.R_ and _emp_data_ms.R_ are for the analysis with the original Urnings, the Multiple Urns and the Multiple Updates algorithm respectively.
The statistics and the plots were calculated/generated using _res_emp_data.R_. 

### Figures
All generated figures can be found under _/figures_ folder.

### Legacy 
The folder _/legacy_ contains code for analyses that did not make the final paper or were modified to make the results easier to digest. 
